[MUSIC]
[SOUND] So, this time, we'll talk
about how to program the Arduino,
not through the normal way,
not through the regular USB route, but
to directly program
the firmware on the processors.
Now, this is not something that
you will typically need to do, but
we're gonna talk about it anyway because
every once in a while you might want
to upload the bootloader to change
the bootloader, update it, and
it's good for you to hear how you do that.
Cuz it's not the regular
programming process through the ID
that we normally do.
So the bootloader is the name of
the firmware on the microcontroller.
And a bootloader is just
a generic term for the software,
it's not just an Arduino thing,
this is just any kind of imbedded system,
microcontroller, generally, has
bootloader code written into the flash.
It allows a flash and the EEPROM
a non-volatile memory to be programmed so
that's what you do when
you upload your code.
You upload your code, it has to be copied
or programmed into the flash memory or
the EEPROM, but usually flash, and so
in order for that to happen there has to
be code executed on the at mega
328 that allows that to happen.
It communicates with the USB interface and
does this.
So that's what the boot
loader's main job is.
The boot loader does a few other
things but that's its main job,
to allow the flash to be re-written and
the EEPROM.
Also handles issues with reset and
things like that but that's its main job.
So it manages the USB communication,
and allows programming.
Now, the catch is that the bootloader
can't reprogram itself, right.
So if you do want to
update the bootloader,
you can't ask the bootloader
to reprogram the bootloader.
All right?
So what you do is,
if you wanna update the boot loader
you can't do it through the normal USB
interface using the boot loader.
Instead you have to use
a different interface.
So that's what
In-Circuit Serial Programming is for.
ICSP.
That's an interface to the board,
the special pins on the board through
which you can program the boot loader.
Now, you can program anything, but
it's just sort of a more direct route.
Non-USB route.
To program the processors on the board,
the microcontroller's on the board and
the only time you would
ever need to use ICSP is
if you want tt update your bootloader.
Because otherwise if you're just
updating authentication code,
you would use a normal USB route,
but the ICSP ports are made so
you can update the bootloader directly,
and the firmware.
Essentially the firmware directly,
so if you look at the board.
It's got two ICSP ports because
there are two processors, right.
There's the ATmega328,
which is the main one.
But there's also the ATmega16U2,
which is for the USB communication.
Right, and that also has firmware on it.
It has code running on it.
And if you want to program
either one of those two,
you have to use their ICSP ports,
their ICSP headers.
So there's one ICSP header
right near the ATmega16U2.
And there’s another ICSP header for
the ATmega328.
And, what you would do if you
wanna program these two is you
have to use a special programmer device
that you have to buy separately.
And you would connect it to those pins.
And then you could use it, and
a different piece of software,
to program the firmware
on both those parts.
So these headers are available for
you to use.
The only time you need them is if
you're rewriting the boot loader, and
in this class we're not going to do that.
If you change the boot loader, you're
beyond the scope of this class, basically.
If you can rewrite a new boot loader,
then you don't need this class.
You can move right on.
But if you, that's what they're for.
You should be aware of what they're for
in case there ever is a need in
the future to update a boot loader,
do some sort of an update, maybe
a security update or something like that.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]